okay so recently i've been thinking about ways
to grow the channel um and i reached out to
this organization called Patriotic Millionaires in
the U.S. and asked if they were interested in the
message they invited me over to give a speech
in Washington DC it was in the middle of April(2022)
it went down well, it's hopefully going to giveus some
chance to reach out to some more Americanviewers
so here is me talking to the AmericanPress
and what Patriotic Millionaires in Washington DC
[Applause]
When i was 14 i used to deliver newspapers
for £12 a week that's $16/week, when i was 19
and i was studying maths and economics at the
London School of Economics (LSE) for lunch i used to
get these two scotch eggs for 75p ($1) because that was
the only way i could afford to eat lunch every day
when i just turned 25 i made my first million
dollars by betting that the us economy would never
recover from the financial crisis, let me tell
you how i did that, so i grew up in east london
right next to the skyscrapers of the financial
district and um we used to see em in the
background we're playing football in the street
but the kids who played in the street next to
those skyscrapers never got jobs inside them and
i know because i worked in one for four years
and people used to say to me that's an
interesting accent where are you from
the reason i got that job is because i found out
that before the financial crisis Citibank used
to hire one trader a year through a poker style card
game that was basically a maths game i was good
at maths and i was good at games so i entered that
competition and i won and that is how in June 2008
i became an interest rates trader for Citibank
without knowing anything about financial markets
four months later i sat on the trading floor
and i watched the world economy blow up
and all the traders and economists said next year
things will get better and one year later when
things hadn't gotten better all the traders and
economists said next year things will get better
and one year after that when things still hadn't
gotten better all the traders and economies said
next year things will get better it was
around about then i started to get suspicious
you see i was working on the trading floor
and i was surrounded by very wealthy people
from elite universities from extremely rich
families from elite private schools but i
didn't come from that kind of background and i was
still living on the streets of east london and i
could see a lot of things that they couldn't see i
could see how much people were struggling how they
couldn't afford to buy houses how they couldn't
get good jobs so i could see my friends mums
selling their houses to support their
kids who would never be able to afford
homes of their own so where are those homes
going where are those people's money going
and i was working at the same time in those
skyscrapers and i'd been to those guys luxury
penthouses and i'd heard about their million dollar
bonus checks so i knew where the money was going
so what happens to an economy where all the
money flows to the richest and nothing is left
for the rest well i'll tell you what happens that
economy dies and i'm not just saying that i bet
on that i put a massive bet that the us economy
would never recover from the financial crisis
and by the end of 2011 a little kid from Ilford,
East London who had just turned 25 years old
was citibank's most profitable trader
in the world and that kid was me and i
did that by betting at the U.S economy your
economy would die and you know what they did
they gave me two million dollars and
they said well done mate do it again
so i quit that job but i didn't stop trading
i went home and i kept betting from my dining
room table every year that your economy
would die and every year i was right and
every year i made a ton of money but you
know what i don't want to be right anymore
and you know why because if your economy dies my
economy dies too and my community my friends and
my family their future their hopes and dreams they
are dying as well and i don't want that to happen
but it will happen it's going to happen it's
happening right now my economy is collapsing
because your economy is collapsing and hundreds
of millions of people are not going to be able to
afford homes to have families they don't know
how they're going to feed their kids that is
what happens when an economy collapses and it's
happening right now and the only way to stop that
is to reduce inequality and the
only way to make that happen
is to actually force rich people to pay their
taxes and the alternative is economic disaster
and i'm not just saying that i'm betting on it
and you guys had better make sure that this time
for once i'm wrong and i really hope
that you do thank you [Applause]
housing could be so much more affordable wages
could be so much higher and we could have so
many more options in how we live our lives some
of them put a lot of money into paying economists
and think tanks to tell you that inequality
is important for the economy that is not true
[Music]